h1(#advanced-topics). Advanced Topics

h2(#compiling-running). Compiling &amp; Running

* "Introduction":compiling_intro Introduction to Godot Build System.
* "Windows":compiling_windows Compiling under Windows.
* "Linux":compiling_linux Compiling under Linux (or other Unix variants).
* "OSX":compiling_osx Compiling under Apple OSX.
* "Android":compiling_android Compiling for Android.
* "iOS":compiling_ios Compiling for iOS.
* -"QNX":compiling_qnx Compiling for BlackBerry QNX.-
* -"NaCl":compiling_nacl Compiling for Google Native Client.-
* "Batch Building Templates":compiling_batch_templates Script for Batch Building All Templates.
* "Universal Windows App":compiling_winrt Compiling for Universal Windows Apps aka &quot;Windows Store Apps&quot; aka &quot;Windows Metro Apps&quot; aka &quot;Windows Phone&quot;

h2(#developing-in-c). Developing in C&#43;&#43;

h3(#source-code). Source Code

* "Diagram":core_diagram Architecture diagram for all components.
* "Core Types":core_types Core Types.
* "Variant":core_variant Variant.
* "Object":core_object Object.
* -"Servers":core_servers Servers.-
* -"Scene":core_scene Scene System.-
* -"Drivers":core_drivers Drivers-.

h3(#extending). Extending

* "Custom Modules":custom_modules Creating custom modules in C&#43;&#43;.
* "Android Modules":tutorial_android_module Creating an android module in Java, for custom SDKs.
* -"Resource Loader":add_resource Adding a new resource loader.-
* -"Script Language":add_script_lang Adding a new scripting language.-
* -"Server":add_server Adding a new server (physics engine, rendering backend, etc).-
* -"Platform":add_platform Porting the engine to a new platform.-

h2(#misc). Misc

* "Command Line":command_line Using the command line, for fans of doing everything in Unix/Windows shell.

* "External Editor":external_editor Configuring an external editor for opening scripts.
* "Changing Editor Fonts":editor_font Changing the editor font (including support for CJK)
* "iOS Services":ios_services Using iOS services (GameCenter, StoreKit)

h2(#data-file-formats). Data &amp; File Formats

* "Binary Serialization":binary_Serialization Binary Serialization API, used for File, Network, etc.
* -"XML File":xml_file XML file format for resources.-
* -"Shader File":shader_file External shader file (.shader).-
* -"Theme File":theme_file External theme (skin) file format.-
* -"Config File":engine_cfg Global engine and project settings file (engine.cfg).-

<ol start="3" style="list-style-type: lower-alpha;">
<li>Juan Linietsky, Ariel Manzur, Distributed under the terms of the "CC By":https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode license.</li>
</ol>
