h1(#capsuleshape2d). CapsuleShape2D

h4(#inherits-shape2d). *Inherits:* "Shape2D":class_shape2d

h4(#category-core). *Category:* Core

h3(#brief-description). Brief Description

Capsule 2D shape resource for physics.

h3(#member-functions). Member Functions

* void *"set&#95;radius":#set_radius* *(* "float":class_float radius *)*
* "float":class_float *"get&#95;radius":#get_radius* *(* *)* const
* void *"set&#95;height":#set_height* *(* "float":class_float height *)*
* "float":class_float *"get&#95;height":#get_height* *(* *)* const

h3(#description). Description

Capsule 2D shape resource for physics. A capsule (or sometimes called &quot;pill&quot;) is like a line grown in all directions. It has a radius and a height, and is often useful for modelling biped characters.

h3(#member-function-description). Member Function Description

h4(#set_radius). <a name="set_radius">set&#95;radius</a>

* void *set&#95;radius* *(* "float":class_float radius *)*

Radius of the "CapsuleShape2D":class_capsuleshape2d.

h4(#get_radius). <a name="get_radius">get&#95;radius</a>

* "float":class_float *get&#95;radius* *(* *)* const

Return the radius of the "CapsuleShape2D":class_capsuleshape2d.

h4(#set_height). <a name="set_height">set&#95;height</a>

* void *set&#95;height* *(* "float":class_float height *)*

Height of the "CapsuleShape2D":class_capsuleshape2d.

h4(#get_height). <a name="get_height">get&#95;height</a>

* "float":class_float *get&#95;height* *(* *)* const

Return the height of the "CapsuleShape2D":class_capsuleshape2d.
