h1(#spriteframes). SpriteFrames

h4(#inherits-resource). *Inherits:* "Resource":class_resource

h4(#category-core). *Category:* Core

h3(#brief-description). Brief Description

Sprite frame library for AnimatedSprite.

h3(#member-functions). Member Functions

* void *"add&#95;frame":#add_frame* *(* "Object":class_object frame, "int":class_int atpos=&#45;1 *)*
* "int":class_int *"get&#95;frame&#95;count":#get_frame_count* *(* *)* const
* "Object":class_object *"get&#95;frame":#get_frame* *(* "int":class_int idx *)* const
* void *"set&#95;frame":#set_frame* *(* "int":class_int idx, "Object":class_object txt *)*
* void *"remove&#95;frame":#remove_frame* *(* "int":class_int idx *)*
* void *"clear":#clear* *(* *)*

h3(#description). Description

Sprite frame library for "AnimatedSprite":class_animatedsprite.

h3(#member-function-description). Member Function Description

h4(#add_frame). <a name="add_frame">add&#95;frame</a>

* void *add&#95;frame* *(* "Object":class_object frame, "int":class_int atpos=&#45;1 *)*

Add a frame (texture).

h4(#get_frame_count). <a name="get_frame_count">get&#95;frame&#95;count</a>

* "int":class_int *get&#95;frame&#95;count* *(* *)* const

Return the amount of frames.

h4(#get_frame). <a name="get_frame">get&#95;frame</a>

* "Object":class_object *get&#95;frame* *(* "int":class_int idx *)* const

Return a texture (frame).

h4(#remove_frame). <a name="remove_frame">remove&#95;frame</a>

* void *remove&#95;frame* *(* "int":class_int idx *)*

Remove a frame

h4(#clear). <a name="clear">clear</a>

* void *clear* *(* *)*

Clear the frames.
