h1(#dictionary). Dictionary

h4(#category-built-in-types). *Category:* Built&#45;In Types

h3(#brief-description). Brief Description

Dictionary type.

h3(#member-functions). Member Functions

* void *"clear":#clear* *(* *)*
* "bool":class_bool *"empty":#empty* *(* *)*
* void *"erase":#erase* *(* var value *)*
* "bool":class_bool *"has":#has* *(* var value *)*
* "int":class_int *"hash":#hash* *(* *)*
* "Array":class_array *"keys":#keys* *(* *)*
* "int":class_int *"parse&#95;json":#parse_json* *(* "String":class_string json *)*
* "int":class_int *"size":#size* *(* *)*
* "String":class_string *"to&#95;json":#to_json* *(* *)*

h3(#description). Description

Dictionary type. Associative container which contains values referenced by unique keys. Dictionaries are always passed by reference.

h3(#member-function-description). Member Function Description

h4(#clear). <a name="clear">clear</a>

* void *clear* *(* *)*

Clear the dictionary, removing all key/value pairs.

h4(#empty). <a name="empty">empty</a>

* "bool":class_bool *empty* *(* *)*

Return true if the dictionary is empty.

h4(#erase). <a name="erase">erase</a>

* void *erase* *(* var value *)*

Erase a dictionary key/value pair by key.

h4(#has). <a name="has">has</a>

* "bool":class_bool *has* *(* var value *)*

Return true if the dictionary has a given key.

h4(#hash). <a name="hash">hash</a>

* "int":class_int *hash* *(* *)*

Return a hashed integer value representing the dictionary contents.

h4(#keys). <a name="keys">keys</a>

* "Array":class_array *keys* *(* *)*

Return the list of keys in the dictionary.

h4(#size). <a name="size">size</a>

* "int":class_int *size* *(* *)*

Return the size of the dictionary (in pairs).
