h1(#resourceloader). ResourceLoader

h4(#inherits-object). *Inherits:* "Object":class_object

h4(#category-core). *Category:* Core

h3(#brief-description). Brief Description

Resource Loader.

h3(#member-functions). Member Functions

* "ResourceInteractiveLoader":class_resourceinteractiveloader *"load&#95;interactive":#load_interactive* *(* "String":class_string path, "String":class_string type&#95;hint=&quot;&quot; *)*
* "Resource":class_resource *"load":#load* *(* "String":class_string path, "String":class_string type&#95;hint=&quot;&quot;, "bool":class_bool p&#95;no&#95;cache=false *)*
* "StringArray":class_stringarray *"get&#95;recognized&#95;extensions&#95;for&#95;type":#get_recognized_extensions_for_type* *(* "String":class_string type *)*
* void *"set&#95;abort&#95;on&#95;missing&#95;resources":#set_abort_on_missing_resources* *(* "bool":class_bool abort *)*
* "StringArray":class_stringarray *"get&#95;dependencies":#get_dependencies* *(* "String":class_string arg0 *)*
* "bool":class_bool *"has":#has* *(* "String":class_string arg0 *)*

h3(#description). Description

Resource Loader. This is a static object accessible as "ResourceLoader":class_resourceloader. GDScript has a simplified load() function, though.

h3(#member-function-description). Member Function Description

h4(#load_interactive). <a name="load_interactive">load&#95;interactive</a>

* "ResourceInteractiveLoader":class_resourceinteractiveloader *load&#95;interactive* *(* "String":class_string path, "String":class_string type&#95;hint=&quot;&quot; *)*

Load a resource interactively, the returned object allows to load with high granularity.

h4(#get_recognized_extensions_for_type). <a name="get_recognized_extensions_for_type">get&#95;recognized&#95;extensions&#95;for&#95;type</a>

* "StringArray":class_stringarray *get&#95;recognized&#95;extensions&#95;for&#95;type* *(* "String":class_string type *)*

Return the list of recognized extensions for a resource type.

h4(#set_abort_on_missing_resources). <a name="set_abort_on_missing_resources">set&#95;abort&#95;on&#95;missing&#95;resources</a>

* void *set&#95;abort&#95;on&#95;missing&#95;resources* *(* "bool":class_bool abort *)*

Change the behavior on missing sub&#45;resources. Default is to abort load.
