h1(#meshlibrary). MeshLibrary

h4(#inherits-resource). *Inherits:* "Resource":class_resource

h4(#category-core). *Category:* Core

h3(#brief-description). Brief Description

Library of meshes.

h3(#member-functions). Member Functions

* void *"create&#95;item":#create_item* *(* "int":class_int id *)*
* void *"set&#95;item&#95;name":#set_item_name* *(* "int":class_int id, "String":class_string name *)*
* void *"set&#95;item&#95;mesh":#set_item_mesh* *(* "int":class_int id, "Mesh":class_mesh mesh *)*
* void *"set&#95;item&#95;shape":#set_item_shape* *(* "int":class_int id, "Shape":class_shape shape *)*
* "String":class_string *"get&#95;item&#95;name":#get_item_name* *(* "int":class_int id *)* const
* "Mesh":class_mesh *"get&#95;item&#95;mesh":#get_item_mesh* *(* "int":class_int id *)* const
* "Shape":class_shape *"get&#95;item&#95;shape":#get_item_shape* *(* "int":class_int id *)* const
* void *"remove&#95;item":#remove_item* *(* "int":class_int id *)*
* void *"clear":#clear* *(* *)*
* "IntArray":class_intarray *"get&#95;item&#95;list":#get_item_list* *(* *)* const
* "int":class_int *"get&#95;last&#95;unused&#95;item&#95;id":#get_last_unused_item_id* *(* *)* const

h3(#description). Description

Library of meshes. Contains a list of "Mesh":class_mesh resources, each with name and ID. Useful for GridMap or painting Terrain.

h3(#member-function-description). Member Function Description

h4(#create_item). <a name="create_item">create&#95;item</a>

* void *create&#95;item* *(* "int":class_int id *)*

Create a new item in the library, supplied an id.

h4(#set_item_name). <a name="set_item_name">set&#95;item&#95;name</a>

* void *set&#95;item&#95;name* *(* "int":class_int id, "String":class_string name *)*

Set the name of the item.

h4(#set_item_mesh). <a name="set_item_mesh">set&#95;item&#95;mesh</a>

* void *set&#95;item&#95;mesh* *(* "int":class_int id, "Mesh":class_mesh mesh *)*

Set the mesh of the item.

h4(#get_item_name). <a name="get_item_name">get&#95;item&#95;name</a>

* "String":class_string *get&#95;item&#95;name* *(* "int":class_int id *)* const

Return the name of the item.

h4(#get_item_mesh). <a name="get_item_mesh">get&#95;item&#95;mesh</a>

* "Mesh":class_mesh *get&#95;item&#95;mesh* *(* "int":class_int id *)* const

Return the mesh of the item.

h4(#remove_item). <a name="remove_item">remove&#95;item</a>

* void *remove&#95;item* *(* "int":class_int id *)*

Remove the item.

h4(#clear). <a name="clear">clear</a>

* void *clear* *(* *)*

Clear the library.

h4(#get_item_list). <a name="get_item_list">get&#95;item&#95;list</a>

* "IntArray":class_intarray *get&#95;item&#95;list* *(* *)* const

Return the list of items.

h4(#get_last_unused_item_id). <a name="get_last_unused_item_id">get&#95;last&#95;unused&#95;item&#95;id</a>

* "int":class_int *get&#95;last&#95;unused&#95;item&#95;id* *(* *)* const

Get an unused id for a new item.
