h1(#matrix32). Matrix32

h4(#category-built-in-types). *Category:* Built&#45;In Types

h3(#brief-description). Brief Description

3x2 Matrix for 2D transforms.

h3(#member-functions). Member Functions

* "Matrix32":class_matrix32 *"affine&#95;inverse":#affine_inverse* *(* *)*
* "Matrix32":class_matrix32 *"basis&#95;xform":#basis_xform* *(* var v *)*
* "Matrix32":class_matrix32 *"basis&#95;xform&#95;inv":#basis_xform_inv* *(* var v *)*
* "Vector2":class_vector2 *"get&#95;origin":#get_origin* *(* *)*
* "float":class_float *"get&#95;rotation":#get_rotation* *(* *)*
* "Vector2":class_vector2 *"get&#95;scale":#get_scale* *(* *)*
* "Matrix32":class_matrix32 *"interpolate&#95;with":#interpolate_with* *(* "Matrix32":class_matrix32 m, "float":class_float c *)*
* "Matrix32":class_matrix32 *"inverse":#inverse* *(* *)*
* "Matrix32":class_matrix32 *"orthonormalized":#orthonormalized* *(* *)*
* "Matrix32":class_matrix32 *"rotated":#rotated* *(* "float":class_float phi *)*
* "Matrix32":class_matrix32 *"scaled":#scaled* *(* "Vector2":class_vector2 scale *)*
* "Matrix32":class_matrix32 *"translated":#translated* *(* "Vector2":class_vector2 offset *)*
* "Matrix32":class_matrix32 *"xform":#xform* *(* var v *)*
* "Matrix32":class_matrix32 *"xform&#95;inv":#xform_inv* *(* var v *)*
* "Matrix32":class_matrix32 *"Matrix32":#Matrix32* *(* "Vector2":class_vector2 x&#95;axis, "Vector2":class_vector2 y&#95;axis, "Vector2":class_vector2 origin *)*
* "Matrix32":class_matrix32 *"Matrix32":#Matrix32* *(* "Transform":class_transform from *)*

h3(#member-variables). Member Variables

* "float":class_float *x*
* "float":class_float *y*
* "float":class_float *o*

h3(#description). Description

3x2 Matrix for 2D transforms.

h3(#member-function-description). Member Function Description
