h1(#tree). Tree

h4(#inherits-control). *Inherits:* "Control":class_control

h4(#category-core). *Category:* Core

h3(#brief-description). Brief Description

h3(#member-functions). Member Functions

* void *"clear":#clear* *(* *)*
* "TreeItem":class_treeitem *"create&#95;item":#create_item* *(* "TreeItem":class_treeitem parent=Object() *)*
* "TreeItem":class_treeitem *"get&#95;root":#get_root* *(* *)*
* void *"set&#95;column&#95;min&#95;width":#set_column_min_width* *(* "int":class_int arg0, "int":class_int arg1 *)*
* void *"set&#95;column&#95;expand":#set_column_expand* *(* "int":class_int arg0, "bool":class_bool arg1 *)*
* "int":class_int *"get&#95;column&#95;width":#get_column_width* *(* "int":class_int arg0 *)* const
* void *"set&#95;hide&#95;root":#set_hide_root* *(* "bool":class_bool arg0 *)*
* "TreeItem":class_treeitem *"get&#95;next&#95;selected":#get_next_selected* *(* "TreeItem":class_treeitem from *)*
* "TreeItem":class_treeitem *"get&#95;selected":#get_selected* *(* *)* const
* "int":class_int *"get&#95;selected&#95;column":#get_selected_column* *(* *)* const
* "int":class_int *"get&#95;pressed&#95;button":#get_pressed_button* *(* *)* const
* void *"set&#95;select&#95;mode":#set_select_mode* *(* "int":class_int mode *)*
* void *"set&#95;columns":#set_columns* *(* "int":class_int amount *)*
* "int":class_int *"get&#95;columns":#get_columns* *(* *)* const
* "TreeItem":class_treeitem *"get&#95;edited":#get_edited* *(* *)* const
* "int":class_int *"get&#95;edited&#95;column":#get_edited_column* *(* *)* const
* "Rect2":class_rect2 *"get&#95;custom&#95;popup&#95;rect":#get_custom_popup_rect* *(* *)* const
* "Rect2":class_rect2 *"get&#95;item&#95;area&#95;rect":#get_item_area_rect* *(* "TreeItem":class_treeitem item, "int":class_int column=&#45;1 *)* const
* void *"ensure&#95;cursor&#95;is&#95;visible":#ensure_cursor_is_visible* *(* *)*
* void *"set&#95;column&#95;titles&#95;visible":#set_column_titles_visible* *(* "bool":class_bool visible *)*
* "bool":class_bool *"are&#95;column&#95;titles&#95;visible":#are_column_titles_visible* *(* *)* const
* void *"set&#95;column&#95;title":#set_column_title* *(* "int":class_int column, "String":class_string title *)*
* "String":class_string *"get&#95;column&#95;title":#get_column_title* *(* "int":class_int column *)* const
* "Vector2":class_vector2 *"get&#95;scroll":#get_scroll* *(* *)* const

h3(#signals). Signals

* *item&#95;activated* *(* *)*
* *multi&#95;selected* *(* "Object":class_object item, "int":class_int column, "bool":class_bool selected *)*
* *custom&#95;popup&#95;edited* *(* "bool":class_bool arrow&#95;clicked *)*
* *item&#95;collapsed* *(* "Object":class_object item *)*
* *item&#95;edited* *(* *)*
* *item&#95;selected* *(* *)*
* *cell&#95;selected* *(* *)*
* *button&#95;pressed* *(* "Object":class_object item, "int":class_int column, "int":class_int id *)*

h3(#numeric-constants). Numeric Constants

* *SELECT&#95;SINGLE* = *0*
* *SELECT&#95;ROW* = *1*
* *SELECT&#95;MULTI* = *2*

h3(#member-function-description). Member Function Description
