h1(#popup). Popup

h4(#inherits-control). *Inherits:* "Control":class_control

h4(#category-core). *Category:* Core

h3(#brief-description). Brief Description

Base container control for popups and dialogs.

h3(#member-functions). Member Functions

* void *"popup&#95;centered":#popup_centered* *(* "Vector2":class_vector2 size=Vector2(0,0) *)*
* void *"popup&#95;centered&#95;ratio":#popup_centered_ratio* *(* "float":class_float ratio=0.75 *)*
* void *"popup&#95;centered&#95;minsize":#popup_centered_minsize* *(* "Vector2":class_vector2 minsize=Vector2(0,0) *)*
* void *"popup":#popup* *(* *)*
* void *"set&#95;exclusive":#set_exclusive* *(* "bool":class_bool enable *)*
* "bool":class_bool *"is&#95;exclusive":#is_exclusive* *(* *)* const

h3(#signals). Signals

* *popup&#95;hide* *(* *)*
* *about&#95;to&#95;show* *(* *)*

h3(#numeric-constants). Numeric Constants

* *NOTIFICATION&#95;POST&#95;POPUP* = *80*
* *NOTIFICATION&#95;POPUP&#95;HIDE* = *81*

h3(#description). Description

PopUp is a base "Control":class_control used to show dialogs and popups. It's a subwindow and modal by default (see "Control":class_control) and has helpers for custom popup behavior.

h3(#member-function-description). Member Function Description

h4(#popup_centered). <a name="popup_centered">popup&#95;centered</a>

* void *popup&#95;centered* *(* "Vector2":class_vector2 size=Vector2(0,0) *)*

Popup (show the control in modal form) in the center of the screen, at the curent size, or at a size determined by &quot;size&quot;.

h4(#popup_centered_ratio). <a name="popup_centered_ratio">popup&#95;centered&#95;ratio</a>

* void *popup&#95;centered&#95;ratio* *(* "float":class_float ratio=0.75 *)*

Popup (show the control in modal form) in the center of the screen, scalled at a ratio of size of the screen.

h4(#popup-1). <a name="popup">popup</a>

* void *popup* *(* *)*

Popup (show the control in modal form).
