h1(#resourceinteractiveloader). ResourceInteractiveLoader

h4(#inherits-reference). *Inherits:* "Reference":class_reference

h4(#category-core). *Category:* Core

h3(#brief-description). Brief Description

Interactive Resource Loader.

h3(#member-functions). Member Functions

* "Object":class_object *"get&#95;resource":#get_resource* *(* *)*
* "int":class_int *"poll":#poll* *(* *)*
* "int":class_int *"wait":#wait* *(* *)*
* "int":class_int *"get&#95;stage":#get_stage* *(* *)* const
* "int":class_int *"get&#95;stage&#95;count":#get_stage_count* *(* *)* const

h3(#description). Description

Interactive Resource Loader. This object is returned by ResourceLoader when performing an interactive load. It allows to load with high granularity, so this is mainly useful for displaying load bars/percentages.

h3(#member-function-description). Member Function Description

h4(#get_resource). <a name="get_resource">get&#95;resource</a>

* "Object":class_object *get&#95;resource* *(* *)*

Return the loaded resource (only if loaded). Otherwise, returns null.

h4(#poll). <a name="poll">poll</a>

* "int":class_int *poll* *(* *)*

Poll the load. If OK is returned, this means poll will have to be called again. If ERR&#95;EOF is returned, them the load has finished and the resource can be obtained by calling [get&#95;resource].

h4(#get_stage). <a name="get_stage">get&#95;stage</a>

* "int":class_int *get&#95;stage* *(* *)* const

Return the load stage. The total amount of stages can be queried with [get&#95;stage&#95;count]

h4(#get_stage_count). <a name="get_stage_count">get&#95;stage&#95;count</a>

* "int":class_int *get&#95;stage&#95;count* *(* *)* const

Return the total amount of stages (calls to [poll] ) needed to completely load this resource.
