h1(#samplelibrary). SampleLibrary

h4(#inherits-resource). *Inherits:* "Resource":class_resource

h4(#category-core). *Category:* Core

h3(#brief-description). Brief Description

Library that contains a collection of Samples.

h3(#member-functions). Member Functions

* void *"add&#95;sample":#add_sample* *(* "String":class_string name, "Sample":class_sample sample *)*
* "Sample":class_sample *"get&#95;sample":#get_sample* *(* "String":class_string name *)* const
* "bool":class_bool *"has&#95;sample":#has_sample* *(* "String":class_string name *)* const
* void *"remove&#95;sample":#remove_sample* *(* "String":class_string name *)*
* void *"sample&#95;set&#95;volume&#95;db":#sample_set_volume_db* *(* "String":class_string name, "float":class_float db *)*
* "float":class_float *"sample&#95;get&#95;volume&#95;db":#sample_get_volume_db* *(* "String":class_string name *)* const
* void *"sample&#95;set&#95;pitch&#95;scale":#sample_set_pitch_scale* *(* "String":class_string name, "float":class_float pitch *)*
* "float":class_float *"sample&#95;get&#95;pitch&#95;scale":#sample_get_pitch_scale* *(* "String":class_string name *)* const

h3(#description). Description

Library that contains a collection of Samples, each identified by an text id. This is used as a data containeer for the majority of the SamplePlayer classes and derivatives.

h3(#member-function-description). Member Function Description

h4(#add_sample). <a name="add_sample">add&#95;sample</a>

* void *add&#95;sample* *(* "String":class_string name, "Sample":class_sample sample *)*

Add a sample to the library, with a given text id;

h4(#get_sample). <a name="get_sample">get&#95;sample</a>

* "Sample":class_sample *get&#95;sample* *(* "String":class_string name *)* const

Return a sample from the library, from a given text&#45;id. Return null if the sample is not found.

h4(#has_sample). <a name="has_sample">has&#95;sample</a>

* "bool":class_bool *has&#95;sample* *(* "String":class_string name *)* const

Return true if the sample text id exists in the library.

h4(#remove_sample). <a name="remove_sample">remove&#95;sample</a>

* void *remove&#95;sample* *(* "String":class_string name *)*

Remove a sample given a specific text id.
