h1(#input). Input

h4(#inherits-object). *Inherits:* "Object":class_object

h4(#category-core). *Category:* Core

h3(#brief-description). Brief Description

h3(#member-functions). Member Functions

* "bool":class_bool *"is&#95;key&#95;pressed":#is_key_pressed* *(* "int":class_int scancode *)*
* "bool":class_bool *"is&#95;mouse&#95;button&#95;pressed":#is_mouse_button_pressed* *(* "int":class_int button *)*
* "bool":class_bool *"is&#95;joy&#95;button&#95;pressed":#is_joy_button_pressed* *(* "int":class_int device, "int":class_int button *)*
* "bool":class_bool *"is&#95;action&#95;pressed":#is_action_pressed* *(* "String":class_string action *)*
* "float":class_float *"get&#95;joy&#95;axis":#get_joy_axis* *(* "int":class_int device, "int":class_int axis *)*
* "String":class_string *"get&#95;joy&#95;name":#get_joy_name* *(* "int":class_int device *)*
* "Vector3":class_vector3 *"get&#95;accelerometer":#get_accelerometer* *(* *)*
* "Vector2":class_vector2 *"get&#95;mouse&#95;speed":#get_mouse_speed* *(* *)* const
* "int":class_int *"get&#95;mouse&#95;button&#95;mask":#get_mouse_button_mask* *(* *)* const
* void *"set&#95;mouse&#95;mode":#set_mouse_mode* *(* "int":class_int mode *)*
* "int":class_int *"get&#95;mouse&#95;mode":#get_mouse_mode* *(* *)* const
* void *"warp&#95;mouse&#95;pos":#warp_mouse_pos* *(* "Vector2":class_vector2 to *)*
* void *"action&#95;press":#action_press* *(* "String":class_string arg0 *)*
* void *"action&#95;release":#action_release* *(* "String":class_string arg0 *)*

h3(#signals). Signals

* *joy&#95;connection&#95;changed* *(* "int":class_int index, "bool":class_bool connected *)*

h3(#numeric-constants). Numeric Constants

* *MOUSE&#95;MODE&#95;VISIBLE* = *0*
* *MOUSE&#95;MODE&#95;HIDDEN* = *1*
* *MOUSE&#95;MODE&#95;CAPTURED* = *2*

h3(#member-function-description). Member Function Description
