h1(#colorarray). ColorArray

h4(#category-built-in-types). *Category:* Built&#45;In Types

h3(#brief-description). Brief Description

Array of Colors

h3(#member-functions). Member Functions

* "Color":class_color *"get":#get* *(* "int":class_int idx *)*
* void *"push&#95;back":#push_back* *(* "Color":class_color color *)*
* void *"resize":#resize* *(* "int":class_int idx *)*
* void *"set":#set* *(* "int":class_int idx, "Color":class_color color *)*
* "int":class_int *"size":#size* *(* *)*
* "ColorArray":class_colorarray *"ColorArray":#ColorArray* *(* "Array":class_array from *)*

h3(#description). Description

Array of Color, can only contains colors. Optimized for memory usage, cant fragment the memory.

h3(#member-function-description). Member Function Description

h4(#get). <a name="get">get</a>

* "Color":class_color *get* *(* "int":class_int idx *)*

Get an index in the array.

h4(#push_back). <a name="push_back">push&#95;back</a>

* void *push&#95;back* *(* "Color":class_color color *)*

Append a value to the array.

h4(#resize). <a name="resize">resize</a>

* void *resize* *(* "int":class_int idx *)*

Resize the array.

h4(#set). <a name="set">set</a>

* void *set* *(* "int":class_int idx, "Color":class_color color *)*

Set an index in the array.

h4(#size). <a name="size">size</a>

* "int":class_int *size* *(* *)*

Return the array size.

h4(#colorarray-1). <a name="ColorArray">ColorArray</a>

* "ColorArray":class_colorarray *ColorArray* *(* "Array":class_array from *)*

Create from a generic array.
