h1(#inputmap). InputMap

h4(#inherits-object). *Inherits:* "Object":class_object

h4(#category-core). *Category:* Core

h3(#brief-description). Brief Description

Singleton that manages actions.

h3(#member-functions). Member Functions

* "bool":class_bool *"has&#95;action":#has_action* *(* "String":class_string action *)* const
* "int":class_int *"get&#95;action&#95;id":#get_action_id* *(* "String":class_string action *)* const
* "String":class_string *"get&#95;action&#95;from&#95;id":#get_action_from_id* *(* "int":class_int id *)* const
* void *"add&#95;action":#add_action* *(* "String":class_string action *)*
* void *"erase&#95;action":#erase_action* *(* "String":class_string action *)*
* void *"action&#95;add&#95;event":#action_add_event* *(* "String":class_string action, "InputEvent":class_inputevent event *)*
* "bool":class_bool *"action&#95;has&#95;event":#action_has_event* *(* "String":class_string action, "InputEvent":class_inputevent event *)*
* void *"action&#95;erase&#95;event":#action_erase_event* *(* "String":class_string action, "InputEvent":class_inputevent event *)*
* "Array":class_array *"get&#95;action&#95;list":#get_action_list* *(* "String":class_string action *)*
* "bool":class_bool *"event&#95;is&#95;action":#event_is_action* *(* "InputEvent":class_inputevent event, "String":class_string action *)* const
* void *"load&#95;from&#95;globals":#load_from_globals* *(* *)*

h3(#description). Description

Singleton that manages actions. InputMap has a list of the actions used in InputEvent, which can be modified.

h3(#member-function-description). Member Function Description
