h1(#intarray). IntArray

h4(#category-built-in-types). *Category:* Built&#45;In Types

h3(#brief-description). Brief Description

Integer Array .

h3(#member-functions). Member Functions

* "int":class_int *"get":#get* *(* "int":class_int idx *)*
* void *"push&#95;back":#push_back* *(* "int":class_int integer *)*
* void *"resize":#resize* *(* "int":class_int idx *)*
* void *"set":#set* *(* "int":class_int idx, "int":class_int integer *)*
* "int":class_int *"size":#size* *(* *)*
* "IntArray":class_intarray *"IntArray":#IntArray* *(* "Array":class_array from *)*

h3(#description). Description

Integer Array. Array of integers. Can only contain integers. Optimized for memory usage, cant fragment the memory.

h3(#member-function-description). Member Function Description

h4(#get). <a name="get">get</a>

* "int":class_int *get* *(* "int":class_int idx *)*

Get an index in the array.

h4(#push_back). <a name="push_back">push&#95;back</a>

* void *push&#95;back* *(* "int":class_int integer *)*

Append a value to the array.

h4(#resize). <a name="resize">resize</a>

* void *resize* *(* "int":class_int idx *)*

Resize the array.

h4(#set). <a name="set">set</a>

* void *set* *(* "int":class_int idx, "int":class_int integer *)*

Set an index in the array.

h4(#size). <a name="size">size</a>

* "int":class_int *size* *(* *)*

Return the array size.

h4(#intarray-1). <a name="IntArray">IntArray</a>

* "IntArray":class_intarray *IntArray* *(* "Array":class_array from *)*

Create from a generic array.
