h1(#streamplayer). StreamPlayer

h4(#inherits-node). *Inherits:* "Node":class_node

h4(#category-core). *Category:* Core

h3(#brief-description). Brief Description

Base class for audio stream playback.

h3(#member-functions). Member Functions

* void *"set&#95;stream":#set_stream* *(* Stream stream *)*
* Stream *"get&#95;stream":#get_stream* *(* *)* const
* void *"play":#play* *(* *)*
* void *"stop":#stop* *(* *)*
* "bool":class_bool *"is&#95;playing":#is_playing* *(* *)* const
* void *"set&#95;paused":#set_paused* *(* "bool":class_bool paused *)*
* "bool":class_bool *"is&#95;paused":#is_paused* *(* *)* const
* void *"set&#95;loop":#set_loop* *(* "bool":class_bool enabled *)*
* "bool":class_bool *"has&#95;loop":#has_loop* *(* *)* const
* void *"set&#95;volume":#set_volume* *(* "float":class_float volume *)*
* "float":class_float *"get&#95;volume":#get_volume* *(* *)* const
* void *"set&#95;volume&#95;db":#set_volume_db* *(* "float":class_float db *)*
* "float":class_float *"get&#95;volume&#95;db":#get_volume_db* *(* *)* const
* "String":class_string *"get&#95;stream&#95;name":#get_stream_name* *(* *)* const
* "int":class_int *"get&#95;loop&#95;count":#get_loop_count* *(* *)* const
* "float":class_float *"get&#95;pos":#get_pos* *(* *)* const
* void *"seek&#95;pos":#seek_pos* *(* "float":class_float time *)*
* void *"set&#95;autoplay":#set_autoplay* *(* "bool":class_bool enabled *)*
* "bool":class_bool *"has&#95;autoplay":#has_autoplay* *(* *)* const
* "float":class_float *"get&#95;length":#get_length* *(* *)* const

h3(#description). Description

Base class for audio stream playback. Audio stream players inherit from it.

h3(#member-function-description). Member Function Description
