h1(#button). Button

h4(#inherits-basebutton). *Inherits:* "BaseButton":class_basebutton

h4(#category-core). *Category:* Core

h3(#brief-description). Brief Description

Standard themed Button.

h3(#member-functions). Member Functions

* void *"set&#95;text":#set_text* *(* "String":class_string text *)*
* "String":class_string *"get&#95;text":#get_text* *(* *)* const
* void *"set&#95;button&#95;icon":#set_button_icon* *(* "Texture":class_texture texture *)*
* "Texture":class_texture *"get&#95;button&#95;icon":#get_button_icon* *(* *)* const
* void *"set&#95;flat":#set_flat* *(* "bool":class_bool enabled *)*
* void *"set&#95;clip&#95;text":#set_clip_text* *(* "bool":class_bool enabled *)*
* "bool":class_bool *"get&#95;clip&#95;text":#get_clip_text* *(* *)* const
* void *"set&#95;text&#95;align":#set_text_align* *(* "int":class_int align *)*
* "int":class_int *"get&#95;text&#95;align":#get_text_align* *(* *)* const
* "bool":class_bool *"is&#95;flat":#is_flat* *(* *)* const

h3(#description). Description

Button is just the standard themed button: [image src=&quot;images/button&#95;example.png&quot;/] It can contain text and an icon, and will display them according to the current "Theme":class_theme.

h3(#member-function-description). Member Function Description

h4(#set_text). <a name="set_text">set&#95;text</a>

* void *set&#95;text* *(* "String":class_string text *)*

Set the button text, which will be displayed inside the button area.

h4(#get_text). <a name="get_text">get&#95;text</a>

* "String":class_string *get&#95;text* *(* *)* const

Return the button text.

h4(#set_flat). <a name="set_flat">set&#95;flat</a>

* void *set&#95;flat* *(* "bool":class_bool enabled *)*

Set the _flat_ property of a Button. Flat buttons don&quot;apos;t display decoration unless hoevered or pressed.

h4(#set_clip_text). <a name="set_clip_text">set&#95;clip&#95;text</a>

* void *set&#95;clip&#95;text* *(* "bool":class_bool enabled *)*

Set the _clip&#95;text_ property of a Button. When this property is enabled, text that is too large to fit the button is clipped, when disabled (default) the Button will always be wide enough to hold the text.

h4(#get_clip_text). <a name="get_clip_text">get&#95;clip&#95;text</a>

* "bool":class_bool *get&#95;clip&#95;text* *(* *)* const

Return the state of the _clip&#95;text_ property (see "set&#95;clip&#95;text":#set_clip_text)

h4(#is_flat). <a name="is_flat">is&#95;flat</a>

* "bool":class_bool *is&#95;flat* *(* *)* const

Return the state of the _flat_ property (see "set&#95;flat":#set_flat)
