h1(#translation). Translation

h4(#inherits-resource). *Inherits:* "Resource":class_resource

h4(#category-core). *Category:* Core

h3(#brief-description). Brief Description

Language Translation.

h3(#member-functions). Member Functions

* void *"set&#95;locale":#set_locale* *(* "String":class_string locale *)*
* "String":class_string *"get&#95;locale":#get_locale* *(* *)* const
* void *"add&#95;message":#add_message* *(* "String":class_string src&#95;message, "String":class_string xlated&#95;message *)*
* "String":class_string *"get&#95;message":#get_message* *(* "String":class_string src&#95;message *)* const
* void *"erase&#95;message":#erase_message* *(* "String":class_string src&#95;message *)*
* "StringArray":class_stringarray *"get&#95;message&#95;list":#get_message_list* *(* *)* const
* "int":class_int *"get&#95;message&#95;count":#get_message_count* *(* *)* const

h3(#description). Description

Translations are resources that can be loaded/unloaded on demand. They map a string to another string.

h3(#member-function-description). Member Function Description

h4(#set_locale). <a name="set_locale">set&#95;locale</a>

* void *set&#95;locale* *(* "String":class_string locale *)*

Set the locale of the translation.

h4(#get_locale). <a name="get_locale">get&#95;locale</a>

* "String":class_string *get&#95;locale* *(* *)* const

Return the locale of the translation.

h4(#add_message). <a name="add_message">add&#95;message</a>

* void *add&#95;message* *(* "String":class_string src&#95;message, "String":class_string xlated&#95;message *)*

Add a message for translation.

h4(#get_message). <a name="get_message">get&#95;message</a>

* "String":class_string *get&#95;message* *(* "String":class_string src&#95;message *)* const

Return a message for translation.

h4(#erase_message). <a name="erase_message">erase&#95;message</a>

* void *erase&#95;message* *(* "String":class_string src&#95;message *)*

Erase a message.

h4(#get_message_list). <a name="get_message_list">get&#95;message&#95;list</a>

* "StringArray":class_stringarray *get&#95;message&#95;list* *(* *)* const

Return all the messages (keys).
