h1(#transform). Transform

h4(#category-built-in-types). *Category:* Built&#45;In Types

h3(#brief-description). Brief Description

3D Transformation.

h3(#member-functions). Member Functions

* "Transform":class_transform *"affine&#95;inverse":#affine_inverse* *(* *)*
* "Transform":class_transform *"inverse":#inverse* *(* *)*
* "Transform":class_transform *"looking&#95;at":#looking_at* *(* "Vector3":class_vector3 target, "Vector3":class_vector3 up *)*
* "Transform":class_transform *"orthonormalized":#orthonormalized* *(* *)*
* "Transform":class_transform *"rotated":#rotated* *(* "Vector3":class_vector3 axis, "float":class_float phi *)*
* "Transform":class_transform *"scaled":#scaled* *(* "Vector3":class_vector3 scale *)*
* "Transform":class_transform *"translated":#translated* *(* "Vector3":class_vector3 ofs *)*
* var *"xform":#xform* *(* var v *)*
* var *"xform&#95;inv":#xform_inv* *(* var v *)*
* "Transform":class_transform *"Transform":#Transform* *(* "Vector3":class_vector3 x&#95;axis, "Vector3":class_vector3 y&#95;axis, "Vector3":class_vector3 z&#95;axis, "Vector3":class_vector3 origin *)*
* "Transform":class_transform *"Transform":#Transform* *(* "Matrix3":class_matrix3 basis, "Vector3":class_vector3 origin *)*
* "Transform":class_transform *"Transform":#Transform* *(* "Matrix32":class_matrix32 from *)*
* "Transform":class_transform *"Transform":#Transform* *(* "Quat":class_quat from *)*
* "Transform":class_transform *"Transform":#Transform* *(* "Matrix3":class_matrix3 from *)*

h3(#member-variables). Member Variables

* "Matrix3":class_matrix3 *basis*
* "Vector3":class_vector3 *origin*

h3(#description). Description

Transform is used to store transformations, including translations. It consists of a Matrix3 &quot;basis&quot; and Vector3 &quot;origin&quot;. Transform is used to represent transformations of any object in space. It is similar to a 4x3 matrix.

h3(#member-function-description). Member Function Description

h4(#inverse). <a name="inverse">inverse</a>

* "Transform":class_transform *inverse* *(* *)*

Returns the inverse of the transform.

h4(#xform). <a name="xform">xform</a>

* var *xform* *(* var v *)*

Transforms vector &quot;v&quot; by this transform.

h4(#xform_inv). <a name="xform_inv">xform&#95;inv</a>

* var *xform&#95;inv* *(* var v *)*

Inverse&#45;transforms vector &quot;v&quot; by this transform.
