h1(#pathremap). PathRemap

h4(#inherits-object). *Inherits:* "Object":class_object

h4(#category-core). *Category:* Core

h3(#brief-description). Brief Description

Singleton containing the list of remapped resources.

h3(#member-functions). Member Functions

* void *"add&#95;remap":#add_remap* *(* "String":class_string from, "String":class_string to, "String":class_string locale=&quot;&quot; *)*
* "bool":class_bool *"has&#95;remap":#has_remap* *(* "String":class_string path *)* const
* "String":class_string *"get&#95;remap":#get_remap* *(* "String":class_string path *)* const
* void *"erase&#95;remap":#erase_remap* *(* "String":class_string path *)*
* void *"clear&#95;remaps":#clear_remaps* *(* *)*

h3(#description). Description

When exporting, the types of some resources may change internally so they are converted to more optimized versions. While it's not usually necesary to access to this directly (path remapping happens automatically when opeining a file), it's exported just for information.

h3(#member-function-description). Member Function Description

h4(#add_remap). <a name="add_remap">add&#95;remap</a>

* void *add&#95;remap* *(* "String":class_string from, "String":class_string to, "String":class_string locale=&quot;&quot; *)*

Add a remap from a file to another.

h4(#has_remap). <a name="has_remap">has&#95;remap</a>

* "bool":class_bool *has&#95;remap* *(* "String":class_string path *)* const

Return true if a file is being remapped.

h4(#get_remap). <a name="get_remap">get&#95;remap</a>

* "String":class_string *get&#95;remap* *(* "String":class_string path *)* const

Return the remapped new path of a file.

h4(#erase_remap). <a name="erase_remap">erase&#95;remap</a>

* void *erase&#95;remap* *(* "String":class_string path *)*

Erase a remap.

h4(#clear_remaps). <a name="clear_remaps">clear&#95;remaps</a>

* void *clear&#95;remaps* *(* *)*

Clear all remaps.
