h1(#shape2d). Shape2D

h4(#inherits-resource). *Inherits:* "Resource":class_resource

h4(#category-core). *Category:* Core

h3(#brief-description). Brief Description

Base class for all 2D Shapes.

h3(#member-functions). Member Functions

* void *"set&#95;custom&#95;solver&#95;bias":#set_custom_solver_bias* *(* "float":class_float bias *)*
* "float":class_float *"get&#95;custom&#95;solver&#95;bias":#get_custom_solver_bias* *(* *)* const
* "bool":class_bool *"collide":#collide* *(* "Matrix32":class_matrix32 local&#95;xform, "Shape2D":class_shape2d with&#95;shape, "Matrix32":class_matrix32 shape&#95;xform *)*
* "bool":class_bool *"collide&#95;with&#95;motion":#collide_with_motion* *(* "Matrix32":class_matrix32 local&#95;xform, "Vector2":class_vector2 local&#95;motion, "Shape2D":class_shape2d with&#95;shape, "Matrix32":class_matrix32 shape&#95;xform, "Vector2":class_vector2 shape&#95;motion *)*
* void *"collide&#95;and&#95;get&#95;contacts":#collide_and_get_contacts* *(* "Matrix32":class_matrix32 local&#95;xform, "Shape2D":class_shape2d with&#95;shape, "Matrix32":class_matrix32 shape&#95;xform *)*
* void *"collide&#95;with&#95;motion&#95;and&#95;get&#95;contacts":#collide_with_motion_and_get_contacts* *(* "Matrix32":class_matrix32 local&#95;xform, "Vector2":class_vector2 local&#95;motion, "Shape2D":class_shape2d with&#95;shape, "Matrix32":class_matrix32 shape&#95;xform, "Vector2":class_vector2 shape&#95;motion *)*

h3(#description). Description

Base class for all 2D Shapes. All 2D shape types inherit from this.

h3(#member-function-description). Member Function Description

h4(#set_custom_solver_bias). <a name="set_custom_solver_bias">set&#95;custom&#95;solver&#95;bias</a>

* void *set&#95;custom&#95;solver&#95;bias* *(* "float":class_float bias *)*

Use a custom solver bias. No need to change this unless you really know what you are doing.

h4(#get_custom_solver_bias). <a name="get_custom_solver_bias">get&#95;custom&#95;solver&#95;bias</a>

* "float":class_float *get&#95;custom&#95;solver&#95;bias* *(* *)* const

Return the custom solver bias. No need to change this unless you really know what you are doing.
