h1(#global-scope). &#64;Global Scope

h4(#category-core). *Category:* Core

h3(#brief-description). Brief Description

Global scope constants and variables.

h3(#member-variables). Member Variables

* "Performance":class_performance *Performance*
* "Globals":class_globals *Globals*
* "IP":class_ip *IP*
* "Geometry":class_geometry *Geometry*
* "ResourceLoader":class_resourceloader *ResourceLoader*
* "ResourceSaver":class_resourcesaver *ResourceSaver*
* "PathRemap":class_pathremap *PathRemap*
* "OS":class_os *OS*
* "Reference":class_reference *Marshalls*
* "TranslationServer":class_translationserver *TranslationServer*
* "TranslationServer":class_translationserver *TS*
* "Input":class_input *Input*
* "InputMap":class_inputmap *InputMap*
* "VisualServer":class_visualserver *VisualServer*
* "VisualServer":class_visualserver *VS*
* "AudioServer":class_audioserver *AudioServer*
* "AudioServer":class_audioserver *AS*
* "PhysicsServer":class_physicsserver *PhysicsServer*
* "PhysicsServer":class_physicsserver *PS*
* "Physics2DServer":class_physics2dserver *Physics2DServer*
* "Physics2DServer":class_physics2dserver *PS2D*
* "SpatialSound2DServer":class_spatialsound2dserver *SpatialSoundServer*
* "SpatialSound2DServer":class_spatialsound2dserver *SS*
* "SpatialSound2DServer":class_spatialsound2dserver *SpatialSound2DServer*
* "SpatialSound2DServer":class_spatialsound2dserver *SS2D*

h3(#numeric-constants). Numeric Constants

* *MARGIN&#95;LEFT* = *0* &#45; Left margin, used usually for [Control] or [StyleBox] derived classes.
* *MARGIN&#95;TOP* = *1* &#45; Top margin, used usually for [Control] or [StyleBox] derived classes.
* *MARGIN&#95;RIGHT* = *2* &#45; Right margin, used usually for [Control] or [StyleBox] derived classes.
* *MARGIN&#95;BOTTOM* = *3* &#45; Bottom margin, used usually for [Control] or [StyleBox] derived classes.
* *VERTICAL* = *1* &#45; General vertical alignment, used usually for [Separator], [ScrollBar], [Slider], etc.
* *HORIZONTAL* = *0* &#45; General horizontal alignment, used usually for [Separator], [ScrollBar], [Slider], etc.
* *HALIGN&#95;LEFT* = *0* &#45; Horizontal left alignment, usually for text&#45;derived classes.
* *HALIGN&#95;CENTER* = *1* &#45; Horizontal center alignment, usually for text&#45;derived classes.
* *HALIGN&#95;RIGHT* = *2* &#45; Horizontal right alignment, usually for text&#45;derived classes.
* *VALIGN&#95;TOP* = *0* &#45; Vertical top alignment, usually for text&#45;derived classes.
* *VALIGN&#95;CENTER* = *1* &#45; Vertical center alignment, usually for text&#45;derived classes.
* *VALIGN&#95;BOTTOM* = *2* &#45; Vertical bottom alignment, usually for text&#45;derived classes.
* *SPKEY* = *16777216* &#45; Scancodes with this bit applied are non printable.
* *KEY&#95;ESCAPE* = *16777217* &#45; Escape Key
* *KEY&#95;TAB* = *16777218* &#45; Tab Key
* *KEY&#95;BACKTAB* = *16777219* &#45; Shift&#45;Tab key
* *KEY&#95;BACKSPACE* = *16777220*
* *KEY&#95;RETURN* = *16777221*
* *KEY&#95;ENTER* = *16777222*
* &#42;&#42;KE