h1(#spinbox). SpinBox

h4(#inherits-range). *Inherits:* "Range":class_range

h4(#category-core). *Category:* Core

h3(#brief-description). Brief Description

Numerical input text field.

h3(#member-functions). Member Functions

* void *"set&#95;suffix":#set_suffix* *(* "String":class_string suffix *)*
* "String":class_string *"get&#95;suffix":#get_suffix* *(* *)* const
* void *"set&#95;prefix":#set_prefix* *(* "String":class_string prefix *)*
* "String":class_string *"get&#95;prefix":#get_prefix* *(* *)* const
* void *"set&#95;editable":#set_editable* *(* "bool":class_bool editable *)*
* "bool":class_bool *"is&#95;editable":#is_editable* *(* *)* const
* "Object":class_object *"get&#95;line&#95;edit":#get_line_edit* *(* *)*

h3(#description). Description

SpinBox is a numerical input text field. It allows entering integers and floats.

h3(#member-function-description). Member Function Description

h4(#set_suffix). <a name="set_suffix">set&#95;suffix</a>

* void *set&#95;suffix* *(* "String":class_string suffix *)*

Set a specific suffix.

h4(#get_suffix). <a name="get_suffix">get&#95;suffix</a>

* "String":class_string *get&#95;suffix* *(* *)* const

Return the specific suffix.

h4(#set_prefix). <a name="set_prefix">set&#95;prefix</a>

* void *set&#95;prefix* *(* "String":class_string prefix *)*

Set a prefix.

h4(#set_editable). <a name="set_editable">set&#95;editable</a>

* void *set&#95;editable* *(* "bool":class_bool editable *)*

Set whether the spinbox is editable.

h4(#is_editable). <a name="is_editable">is&#95;editable</a>

* "bool":class_bool *is&#95;editable* *(* *)* const

Return if the spinbox is editable.
