h1(#script). Script

h4(#inherits-resource). *Inherits:* "Resource":class_resource

h4(#category-core). *Category:* Core

h3(#brief-description). Brief Description

Base class for scripts.

h3(#member-functions). Member Functions

* "bool":class_bool *"can&#95;instance":#can_instance* *(* *)* const
* "bool":class_bool *"instance&#95;has":#instance_has* *(* "Object":class_object base&#95;object *)* const
* "bool":class_bool *"has&#95;source&#95;code":#has_source_code* *(* *)* const
* "String":class_string *"get&#95;source&#95;code":#get_source_code* *(* *)* const
* void *"set&#95;source&#95;code":#set_source_code* *(* "String":class_string source *)*
* "int":class_int *"reload":#reload* *(* *)*

h3(#description). Description

Base class for scripts. Any script that is loaded becomes one of these resources, which can then create instances.

h3(#member-function-description). Member Function Description

h4(#can_instance). <a name="can_instance">can&#95;instance</a>

* "bool":class_bool *can&#95;instance* *(* *)* const

Return true if this script can be instance (ie not a library).

h4(#instance_has). <a name="instance_has">instance&#95;has</a>

* "bool":class_bool *instance&#95;has* *(* "Object":class_object base&#95;object *)* const

Return true if a given object uses an instance of this script.

h4(#has_source_code). <a name="has_source_code">has&#95;source&#95;code</a>

* "bool":class_bool *has&#95;source&#95;code* *(* *)* const

Return true if the script contains source code.

h4(#get_source_code). <a name="get_source_code">get&#95;source&#95;code</a>

* "String":class_string *get&#95;source&#95;code* *(* *)* const

Return the script source code (if available).

h4(#set_source_code). <a name="set_source_code">set&#95;source&#95;code</a>

* void *set&#95;source&#95;code* *(* "String":class_string source *)*

Set the script source code.

h4(#reload). <a name="reload">reload</a>

* "int":class_int *reload* *(* *)*

Reload the script. This will fail if there are existing instances.
