h1(#dampedspringjoint2d). DampedSpringJoint2D

h4(#inherits-joint2d). *Inherits:* "Joint2D":class_joint2d

h4(#category-core). *Category:* Core

h3(#brief-description). Brief Description

Damped sprint constraint for 2D physics.

h3(#member-functions). Member Functions

* void *"set&#95;length":#set_length* *(* "float":class_float length *)*
* "float":class_float *"get&#95;length":#get_length* *(* *)* const
* void *"set&#95;rest&#95;length":#set_rest_length* *(* "float":class_float rest&#95;length *)*
* "float":class_float *"get&#95;rest&#95;length":#get_rest_length* *(* *)* const
* void *"set&#95;stiffness":#set_stiffness* *(* "float":class_float stiffness *)*
* "float":class_float *"get&#95;stiffness":#get_stiffness* *(* *)* const
* void *"set&#95;damping":#set_damping* *(* "float":class_float damping *)*
* "float":class_float *"get&#95;damping":#get_damping* *(* *)* const

h3(#description). Description

Damped sprint constraint for 2D physics. This resembles a sprint joint that always want to go back to a given length.

h3(#member-function-description). Member Function Description

h4(#set_length). <a name="set_length">set&#95;length</a>

* void *set&#95;length* *(* "float":class_float length *)*

Set the maximum length of the sprint joint.

h4(#get_length). <a name="get_length">get&#95;length</a>

* "float":class_float *get&#95;length* *(* *)* const

Return the maximum length of the sprint joint.

h4(#set_rest_length). <a name="set_rest_length">set&#95;rest&#95;length</a>

* void *set&#95;rest&#95;length* *(* "float":class_float rest&#95;length *)*

Set the resting length of the sprint joint. The joint will always try to go to back this length when pulled apart.

h4(#get_rest_length). <a name="get_rest_length">get&#95;rest&#95;length</a>

* "float":class_float *get&#95;rest&#95;length* *(* *)* const

Return the resting length of the sprint joint. The joint will always try to go to back this length when pulled apart.

h4(#set_stiffness). <a name="set_stiffness">set&#95;stiffness</a>

* void *set&#95;stiffness* *(* "float":class_float stiffness *)*

Set the stiffness of the spring joint.

h4(#get_stiffness). <a name="get_stiffness">get&#95;stiffness</a>

* "float":class_float *get&#95;stiffness* *(* *)* const

Return the stiffness of the spring joint.

h4(#set_damping). <a name="set_damping">set&#95;damping</a>

* void *set&#95;damping* *(* "float":class_float damping *)*

Set the damping of the spring joint.

h4(#get_damping). <a name="get_damping">get&#95;damping</a>

* "float":class_float *get&#95;damping* *(* *)* const

Return the damping of the spring joint.
