h1(#array). Array

h4(#category-built-in-types). *Category:* Built&#45;In Types

h3(#brief-description). Brief Description

Generic array datatype.

h3(#member-functions). Member Functions

* void *"append":#append* *(* var value *)*
* void *"clear":#clear* *(* *)*
* "bool":class_bool *"empty":#empty* *(* *)*
* void *"erase":#erase* *(* var value *)*
* "int":class_int *"find":#find* *(* var value *)*
* "int":class_int *"hash":#hash* *(* *)*
* void *"insert":#insert* *(* "int":class_int pos, var value *)*
* void *"invert":#invert* *(* *)*
* "bool":class_bool *"is&#95;shared":#is_shared* *(* *)*
* void *"push&#95;back":#push_back* *(* var value *)*
* void *"remove":#remove* *(* "int":class_int pos *)*
* void *"resize":#resize* *(* "int":class_int pos *)*
* "int":class_int *"size":#size* *(* *)*
* void *"sort":#sort* *(* *)*
* void *"sort&#95;custom":#sort_custom* *(* "Object":class_object obj, "String":class_string func *)*
* "Array":class_array *"Array":#Array* *(* "RawArray":class_rawarray from *)*
* "Array":class_array *"Array":#Array* *(* "IntArray":class_intarray from *)*
* "Array":class_array *"Array":#Array* *(* "RealArray":class_realarray from *)*
* "Array":class_array *"Array":#Array* *(* "StringArray":class_stringarray from *)*
* "Array":class_array *"Array":#Array* *(* "Vector2Array":class_vector2array from *)*
* "Array":class_array *"Array":#Array* *(* "Vector3Array":class_vector3array from *)*
* "Array":class_array *"Array":#Array* *(* "ColorArray":class_colorarray from *)*

h3(#description). Description

Generic array, contains several elements of any type, accessible by numerical index starting at 0. Arrays are always passed by reference.

h3(#member-function-description). Member Function Description

h4(#clear). <a name="clear">clear</a>

* void *clear* *(* *)*

Clear the array (resize to 0).

h4(#empty). <a name="empty">empty</a>

* "bool":class_bool *empty* *(* *)*

Return true if the array is empty (size==0).

h4(#hash). <a name="hash">hash</a>

* "int":class_int *hash* *(* *)*

Return a hashed integer value representing the array contents.

h4(#insert). <a name="insert">insert</a>

* void *insert* *(* "int":class_int pos, var value *)*

Insert a new element at a given position in the array. The position must be valid, or at the end of the array (pos==size()).

h4(#push_back). <a name="push_back">push&#95;back</a>

* void *push&#95;back* *(* var value *)*

Append an element at the end of the array.

h4(#remove). <a name="remove">remove</a>

* void *remove* *(* "int":class_int pos *)*

Remove an element from the array by index.

h4(#resize). <a name="resize">resize</a>

* void *resize* *(* "int":class_int pos *)*

Resize the array to contain a different number of elements. If the array size is smaller, elements are cleared, if bigger, new elements are Null.

h4(#size). <a name="size">size</a>

* "int":class_int *size* *(* *)*

Return the amount of elements in the array.

h4(#array-1). <a name="Array">Array</a>

* "Array":class_array *Array* *(* "RawArray":class_rawarray from *)*

Construct an array from a "RawArray":class_rawarray.

h4(#array-2). <a name="Array">Array</a>

* "Array":class_array *Array* *(* "IntArray":class_intarray from *)*

Construct an array from a "RawArray":class_rawarray.

h4(#array-3). <a name="Array">Array</a>

* "Array":class_array *Array* *(* "RealArray":class_realarray from *)*

Construct an array from a "RawArray":class_rawarray.

h4(#array-4). <a name="Array">Array</a>

* "Array":class_array *Array* *(* "StringArray":class_stringarray from *)*

Construct an array from a "RawArray":class_rawarray.

h4(#array-5). <a name="Array">Array</a>

* "Array":class_array *Array* *(* "Vector2Array":class_vector2array from *)*

Construct an array from a "RawArray":class_rawarray.

h4(#array-6). <a name="Array">Array</a>

* "Array":class_array *Array* *(* "Vector3Array":class_vector3array from *)*

Construct an array from a "RawArray":class_rawarray.

h4(#array-7). <a name="Array">Array</a>

* "Array":class_array *Array* *(* "ColorArray":class_colorarray from *)*

Construct an array from a "RawArray":class_rawarray.
