h1(#meshinstance). MeshInstance

h4(#inherits-geometryinstance). *Inherits:* "GeometryInstance":class_geometryinstance

h4(#category-core). *Category:* Core

h3(#brief-description). Brief Description

Node that instances meshes into a [Scenario].

h3(#member-functions). Member Functions

* void *"set&#95;mesh":#set_mesh* *(* "Mesh":class_mesh mesh *)*
* "Mesh":class_mesh *"get&#95;mesh":#get_mesh* *(* *)* const
* void *"set&#95;skeleton&#95;path":#set_skeleton_path* *(* "NodePath":class_nodepath skeleton&#95;path *)*
* "NodePath":class_nodepath *"get&#95;skeleton&#95;path":#get_skeleton_path* *(* *)*
* "AABB":class_aabb *"get&#95;aabb":#get_aabb* *(* *)* const
* void *"create&#95;trimesh&#95;collision":#create_trimesh_collision* *(* *)*
* void *"create&#95;convex&#95;collision":#create_convex_collision* *(* *)*

h3(#description). Description

MeshInstance is a "Node":class_node that takes a "Mesh":class_mesh resource and adds it to the current [Scenario] by creating an instance of it. This is the class most often used to get 3D geometry rendered and can be used to instance a sigle "Mesh":class_mesh in many places. This allows to reuse geometry and save on resources. When a "Mesh":class_mesh has to be instanced more than thousands of times at close proximity, consider using a "MultiMesh":class_multimesh in a "MultiMeshInstance":class_multimeshinstance instead.

h3(#member-function-description). Member Function Description

h4(#set_mesh). <a name="set_mesh">set&#95;mesh</a>

* void *set&#95;mesh* *(* "Mesh":class_mesh mesh *)*

Set the "Mesh":class_mesh resource for the instance.

h4(#get_mesh). <a name="get_mesh">get&#95;mesh</a>

* "Mesh":class_mesh *get&#95;mesh* *(* *)* const

Return the current "Mesh":class_mesh resource for the instance.

h4(#get_aabb). <a name="get_aabb">get&#95;aabb</a>

* "AABB":class_aabb *get&#95;aabb* *(* *)* const

Return the AABB of the mesh, in local coordinates.

h4(#create_trimesh_collision). <a name="create_trimesh_collision">create&#95;trimesh&#95;collision</a>

* void *create&#95;trimesh&#95;collision* *(* *)*

This helper creates a "StaticBody":class_staticbody child "Node":class_node using the mesh geometry as collision. It&quot;apos;s mainly used for testing.
