h1(#texturebutton). TextureButton

h4(#inherits-basebutton). *Inherits:* "BaseButton":class_basebutton

h4(#category-core). *Category:* Core

h3(#brief-description). Brief Description

Button that can be themed with textures.

h3(#member-functions). Member Functions

* void *"set&#95;normal&#95;texture":#set_normal_texture* *(* "Texture":class_texture texture *)*
* void *"set&#95;pressed&#95;texture":#set_pressed_texture* *(* "Texture":class_texture texture *)*
* void *"set&#95;hover&#95;texture":#set_hover_texture* *(* "Texture":class_texture texture *)*
* void *"set&#95;disabled&#95;texture":#set_disabled_texture* *(* "Texture":class_texture texture *)*
* void *"set&#95;focused&#95;texture":#set_focused_texture* *(* "Texture":class_texture texture *)*
* void *"set&#95;click&#95;mask":#set_click_mask* *(* "BitMap":class_bitmap mask *)*
* void *"set&#95;scale":#set_scale* *(* "Vector2":class_vector2 scale *)*
* void *"set&#95;modulate":#set_modulate* *(* "Color":class_color color *)*
* "Texture":class_texture *"get&#95;normal&#95;texture":#get_normal_texture* *(* *)* const
* "Texture":class_texture *"get&#95;pressed&#95;texture":#get_pressed_texture* *(* *)* const
* "Texture":class_texture *"get&#95;hover&#95;texture":#get_hover_texture* *(* *)* const
* "Texture":class_texture *"get&#95;disabled&#95;texture":#get_disabled_texture* *(* *)* const
* "Texture":class_texture *"get&#95;focused&#95;texture":#get_focused_texture* *(* *)* const
* "BitMap":class_bitmap *"get&#95;click&#95;mask":#get_click_mask* *(* *)* const
* "Vector2":class_vector2 *"get&#95;scale":#get_scale* *(* *)* const
* "Color":class_color *"get&#95;modulate":#get_modulate* *(* *)* const

h3(#description). Description

Button that can be themed with textures. This is like a regular "Button":class_button but can be themed by assigning textures to it. This button is intended to be easy to theme, however a regular button can expand (that uses styleboxes) and still be better if the interface is expect to have internationalization of texts.

bc. Only the normal texture is required, the others are optional.


h3(#member-function-description). Member Function Description
