h1(#tabcontainer). TabContainer

h4(#inherits-control). *Inherits:* "Control":class_control

h4(#category-core). *Category:* Core

h3(#brief-description). Brief Description

Tabbed Container.

h3(#member-functions). Member Functions

* "int":class_int *"get&#95;tab&#95;count":#get_tab_count* *(* *)* const
* void *"set&#95;current&#95;tab":#set_current_tab* *(* "int":class_int tab&#95;idx *)*
* "int":class_int *"get&#95;current&#95;tab":#get_current_tab* *(* *)* const
* void *"set&#95;tab&#95;align":#set_tab_align* *(* "int":class_int align *)*
* "int":class_int *"get&#95;tab&#95;align":#get_tab_align* *(* *)* const
* void *"set&#95;tabs&#95;visible":#set_tabs_visible* *(* "bool":class_bool visible *)*
* "bool":class_bool *"are&#95;tabs&#95;visible":#are_tabs_visible* *(* *)* const
* void *"set&#95;tab&#95;title":#set_tab_title* *(* "int":class_int tab&#95;idx, "String":class_string title *)*
* "String":class_string *"get&#95;tab&#95;title":#get_tab_title* *(* "int":class_int tab&#95;idx *)* const
* void *"set&#95;tab&#95;icon":#set_tab_icon* *(* "int":class_int tab&#95;idx, "Texture":class_texture icon *)*
* "Texture":class_texture *"get&#95;tab&#95;icon":#get_tab_icon* *(* "int":class_int tab&#95;idx *)* const

h3(#signals). Signals

* *tab&#95;changed* *(* "int":class_int tab *)*

h3(#description). Description

Tabbed Container. Contains several children controls, but shows only one at the same time. Clicking ont he top tabs allows to change the current visible one.

bc. Children controls of this one automatically.


h3(#member-function-description). Member Function Description

h4(#get_tab_count). <a name="get_tab_count">get&#95;tab&#95;count</a>

* "int":class_int *get&#95;tab&#95;count* *(* *)* const

Return the amount of tabs.

h4(#set_current_tab). <a name="set_current_tab">set&#95;current&#95;tab</a>

* void *set&#95;current&#95;tab* *(* "int":class_int tab&#95;idx *)*

Bring a tab (and the Control it represents) to the front, and hide the rest.

h4(#get_current_tab). <a name="get_current_tab">get&#95;current&#95;tab</a>

* "int":class_int *get&#95;current&#95;tab* *(* *)* const

Return the current tab that is being showed.

h4(#set_tab_align). <a name="set_tab_align">set&#95;tab&#95;align</a>

* void *set&#95;tab&#95;align* *(* "int":class_int align *)*

Set tab alignment, from the ALIGN&#95;&#42; enum. Moves tabs to the left, right or center.

h4(#get_tab_align). <a name="get_tab_align">get&#95;tab&#95;align</a>

* "int":class_int *get&#95;tab&#95;align* *(* *)* const

Return tab alignment, from the ALIGN&#95;&#42; enum

h4(#set_tabs_visible). <a name="set_tabs_visible">set&#95;tabs&#95;visible</a>

* void *set&#95;tabs&#95;visible* *(* "bool":class_bool visible *)*

Set whether the tabs should be visible or hidden.

h4(#are_tabs_visible). <a name="are_tabs_visible">are&#95;tabs&#95;visible</a>

* "bool":class_bool *are&#95;tabs&#95;visible* *(* *)* const

Return whether the tabs should be visible or hidden.

h4(#set_tab_title). <a name="set_tab_title">set&#95;tab&#95;title</a>

* void *set&#95;tab&#95;title* *(* "int":class_int tab&#95;idx, "String":class_string title *)*

Set a title for the tab. Tab titles are by default the children node name, but this can be overriden.

h4(#get_tab_title). <a name="get_tab_title">get&#95;tab&#95;title</a>

* "String":class_string *get&#95;tab&#95;title* *(* "int":class_int tab&#95;idx *)* const

Return the title for the tab. Tab titles are by default the children node name, but this can be overriden.

h4(#set_tab_icon). <a name="set_tab_icon">set&#95;tab&#95;icon</a>

* void *set&#95;tab&#95;icon* *(* "int":class_int tab&#95;idx, "Texture":class_texture icon *)*

Set an icon for a tab.
