h1(#acceptdialog). AcceptDialog

h4(#inherits-windowdialog). *Inherits:* "WindowDialog":class_windowdialog

h4(#category-core). *Category:* Core

h3(#brief-description). Brief Description

Base dialog for user notification.

h3(#member-functions). Member Functions

* "Object":class_object *"get&#95;ok":#get_ok* *(* *)*
* "Object":class_object *"get&#95;label":#get_label* *(* *)*
* void *"set&#95;hide&#95;on&#95;ok":#set_hide_on_ok* *(* "bool":class_bool enabled *)*
* "bool":class_bool *"get&#95;hide&#95;on&#95;ok":#get_hide_on_ok* *(* *)* const
* "Button":class_button *"add&#95;button":#add_button* *(* "String":class_string text, "bool":class_bool right=false, "String":class_string action=&quot;&quot; *)*
* "Button":class_button *"add&#95;cancel":#add_cancel* *(* "String":class_string name *)*
* void *"register&#95;text&#95;enter":#register_text_enter* *(* "Object":class_object line&#95;edit *)*
* void *"set&#95;text":#set_text* *(* "String":class_string text *)*
* "String":class_string *"get&#95;text":#get_text* *(* *)* const

h3(#signals). Signals

* *confirmed* *(* *)*
* *custom&#95;action* *(* "String":class_string action *)*

h3(#description). Description

This dialog is useful for small notifications to the user about an event. It can only be accepted or closed, with the same result.

h3(#member-function-description). Member Function Description

h4(#get_ok). <a name="get_ok">get&#95;ok</a>

* "Object":class_object *get&#95;ok* *(* *)*

Return the OK Button.

h4(#get_label). <a name="get_label">get&#95;label</a>

* "Object":class_object *get&#95;label* *(* *)*

Return the label used for built&#45;in text.

h4(#set_hide_on_ok). <a name="set_hide_on_ok">set&#95;hide&#95;on&#95;ok</a>

* void *set&#95;hide&#95;on&#95;ok* *(* "bool":class_bool enabled *)*

Set whether the dialog is hidden when accepted (default true).

h4(#get_hide_on_ok). <a name="get_hide_on_ok">get&#95;hide&#95;on&#95;ok</a>

* "bool":class_bool *get&#95;hide&#95;on&#95;ok* *(* *)* const

Return true if the dialog will be hidden when accepted (default true).

h4(#register_text_enter). <a name="register_text_enter">register&#95;text&#95;enter</a>

* void *register&#95;text&#95;enter* *(* "Object":class_object line&#95;edit *)*

Register a "LineEdit":class_lineedit in the dialog. When the enter key is pressed, the dialog will be accepted.

h4(#set_text). <a name="set_text">set&#95;text</a>

* void *set&#95;text* *(* "String":class_string text *)*

Set the built&#45;in label text.

h4(#get_text). <a name="get_text">get&#95;text</a>

* "String":class_string *get&#95;text* *(* *)* const

Return the built&#45;in label text.
