h1(#label). Label

h4(#inherits-range). *Inherits:* "Range":class_range

h4(#category-core). *Category:* Core

h3(#brief-description). Brief Description

Control that displays formatted text.

h3(#member-functions). Member Functions

* void *"set&#95;align":#set_align* *(* "int":class_int align *)*
* "int":class_int *"get&#95;align":#get_align* *(* *)* const
* void *"set&#95;valign":#set_valign* *(* "int":class_int valign *)*
* "int":class_int *"get&#95;valign":#get_valign* *(* *)* const
* void *"set&#95;text":#set_text* *(* "String":class_string text *)*
* "String":class_string *"get&#95;text":#get_text* *(* *)* const
* void *"set&#95;autowrap":#set_autowrap* *(* "bool":class_bool enable *)*
* "bool":class_bool *"has&#95;autowrap":#has_autowrap* *(* *)* const
* void *"set&#95;uppercase":#set_uppercase* *(* "bool":class_bool enable *)*
* "bool":class_bool *"is&#95;uppercase":#is_uppercase* *(* *)* const
* "int":class_int *"get&#95;line&#95;height":#get_line_height* *(* *)* const
* "int":class_int *"get&#95;line&#95;count":#get_line_count* *(* *)* const
* "int":class_int *"get&#95;total&#95;character&#95;count":#get_total_character_count* *(* *)* const
* void *"set&#95;visible&#95;characters":#set_visible_characters* *(* "int":class_int arg0 *)*
* void *"set&#95;percent&#95;visible":#set_percent_visible* *(* "float":class_float percent&#95;visible *)*
* "float":class_float *"get&#95;percent&#95;visible":#get_percent_visible* *(* *)* const

h3(#numeric-constants). Numeric Constants

* *ALIGN&#95;LEFT* = *0* &#45; Align rows to the left (default).
* *ALIGN&#95;CENTER* = *1* &#45; Align rows centered.
* *ALIGN&#95;RIGHT* = *2* &#45; Align rows to the right (default).
* *ALIGN&#95;FILL* = *3* &#45; Expand row whitespaces to fit the width.
* *VALIGN&#95;TOP* = *0* &#45; Align the whole text to the top.
* *VALIGN&#95;CENTER* = *1* &#45; Align the whole text to the center.
* *VALIGN&#95;BOTTOM* = *2* &#45; Align the whole text to the bottom.
* *VALIGN&#95;FILL* = *3* &#45; Align the whole text by spreading the rows.

h3(#description). Description

Label is a control that displays formatted text, optionally autowrapping it to the "Control":class_control area. It inherits from range to be able to scroll wrapped text vertically.

h3(#member-function-description). Member Function Description

h4(#set_align). <a name="set_align">set&#95;align</a>

* void *set&#95;align* *(* "int":class_int align *)*

Set the alignmend mode to any of the ALIGN&#95;&#42; enumeration values.

h4(#get_align). <a name="get_align">get&#95;align</a>

* "int":class_int *get&#95;align* *(* *)* const

Return the alignmend mode (any of the ALIGN&#95;&#42; enumeration values).

h4(#set_text). <a name="set_text">set&#95;text</a>

* void *set&#95;text* *(* "String":class_string text *)*

Set the label text. Text can contain newlines.

h4(#get_text). <a name="get_text">get&#95;text</a>

* "String":class_string *get&#95;text* *(* *)* const

Return the label text. Text can contain newlines.

h4(#set_autowrap). <a name="set_autowrap">set&#95;autowrap</a>

* void *set&#95;autowrap* *(* "bool":class_bool enable *)*

Set _autowrap_ mode. When enabled, autowrap will fit text to the control width, breaking sentences when they exceed the available horizontal space. When disabled, the label minimum width becomes the width of the longest row, and the minimum height large enough to fit all rows.

h4(#has_autowrap). <a name="has_autowrap">has&#95;autowrap</a>

* "bool":class_bool *has&#95;autowrap* *(* *)* const

Return the state of the _autowrap_ mode (see "set&#95;autowrap":#set_autowrap).

h4(#get_line_height). <a name="get_line_height">get&#95;line&#95;height</a>

* "int":class_int *get&#95;line&#95;height* *(* *)* const

Return the height of a line.

h4(#get_line_count). <a name="get_line_count">get&#95;line&#95;count</a>

* "int":class_int *get&#95;line&#95;count* *(* *)* const

Return the amount of lines.
